.github/DEPENDENCIES.md, before:

# Updating dependencies

## Dependabot

We use [GitHub Dependabot](https://docs.github.com/en/github/administering-a-repository/keeping-your-dependencies-updated-automatically) 
([bought by GitHub in 2019](https://dependabot.com/blog/hello-github/) and now 
[baked into GitHub](https://github.blog/2020-06-01-keep-all-your-packages-up-to-date-with-dependabot/)) 
to manage our dependencies.

Whenever possible we let Dependabot update our dependencies automatically (by 
[automatically creating a PR](https://docs.github.com/en/github/administering-a-repository/managing-pull-requests-for-dependency-updates#about-github-dependabot-pull-requests)
for us to merge).

Dependabot will automatically update our bundled Ruby Gems and all 
[non-Docker dependencies in our GitHub Actions](https://github.blog/2020-06-25-dependabot-now-updates-your-actions-workflows/).


### Workaround for other dependencies

For our other dependencies which cannot be updated automatically by Dependabot, we employ a bit of a hack.  
We have a [`dependabot_hack.yml`](workflows/dependabot_hack.yml) GitHub Action which triggers a Dependabot PR when these other dependencies have a new version to update to.  This GitHub Action is set to never actually run; it exists just so that Dependabot can do its thing.  The `dependabot_hack.yml` documents where in our codebase that we then need to **update to the new version manually** (we then **add this manual update as another commit to the PR that Dependabot creates**).  NB we are able to use this hack to **manage _any_ dependency that uses 
[GitHub releases](https://docs.github.com/en/github/administering-a-repository/about-releases)** - we are not limited to just dependencies which are themselves GitHub Actions (this is because Dependabot doesn't care
whether the dependencies are valid GitHub Actions, it just parses the file and updates any versions that are
managed through GitHub releases).

We could in theory automate this entirely (by e.g. having a GitHub Action that is triggered by Dependabot PRs,
which updates the version in the requisite files and then adds the change in a new commit to the Dependabot PR),
but that would be overkill for now.

Eventually as Dependabot adds more features we may be able to remove this workaround.


## Ubuntu version

[Ubuntu releases annually in April](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases).  In 2020 the GitHub Actions team [supported the new version by mid June](https://github.com/actions/virtual-environments/issues/228#issuecomment-644065532), so we have [an issue automatically created on for 15th July each year](https://github.com/johnboyes/hotcustard-payments/pull/114) to prompt us to update.

Commit message:

Remove Ubuntu update scheduler
It turns out that GitHub Actions only supports Ubuntu LTS versions,
which are every 2 years.  GitHub Actions cron scheduler functionality
does not support setting a workflow to be every 2 years, so this commit
removes the scheduled creation of a GitHub Issue for this.  Instead the
repository owner has their own personal (non-GitHub) reminder to update
the Ubuntu version every 2 years on 15 July.

.github/DEPENDENCIES.md, after:

# Updating dependencies

## Dependabot

We use [GitHub Dependabot](https://docs.github.com/en/github/administering-a-repository/keeping-your-dependencies-updated-automatically) 
([bought by GitHub in 2019](https://dependabot.com/blog/hello-github/) and now 
[baked into GitHub](https://github.blog/2020-06-01-keep-all-your-packages-up-to-date-with-dependabot/)) 
to manage our dependencies.

Whenever possible we let Dependabot update our dependencies automatically (by 
[automatically creating a PR](https://docs.github.com/en/github/administering-a-repository/managing-pull-requests-for-dependency-updates#about-github-dependabot-pull-requests)
for us to merge).

Dependabot will automatically update our bundled Ruby Gems and all 
[non-Docker dependencies in our GitHub Actions](https://github.blog/2020-06-25-dependabot-now-updates-your-actions-workflows/).


### Workaround for other dependencies

For our other dependencies which cannot be updated automatically by Dependabot, we employ a bit of a hack.  
We have a [`dependabot_hack.yml`](workflows/dependabot_hack.yml) GitHub Action which triggers a Dependabot PR when these other dependencies have a new version to update to.  This GitHub Action is set to never actually run; it exists just so that Dependabot can do its thing.  The `dependabot_hack.yml` documents where in our codebase that we then need to **update to the new version manually** (we then **add this manual update as another commit to the PR that Dependabot creates**).  NB we are able to use this hack to **manage _any_ dependency that uses 
[GitHub releases](https://docs.github.com/en/github/administering-a-repository/about-releases)** - we are not limited to just dependencies which are themselves GitHub Actions (this is because Dependabot doesn't care
whether the dependencies are valid GitHub Actions, it just parses the file and updates any versions that are
managed through GitHub releases).

We could in theory automate this entirely (by e.g. having a GitHub Action that is triggered by Dependabot PRs,
which updates the version in the requisite files and then adds the change in a new commit to the Dependabot PR),
but that would be overkill for now.

Eventually as Dependabot adds more features we may be able to remove this workaround.


## Ubuntu version

GitHub Actions supports Ubuntu LTS versions only.  [Ubuntu releases a new LTS version every second year in
April](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases).  In 2020 the GitHub Actions team [supported the new version by mid
June](https://github.com/actions/virtual-environments/issues/228#issuecomment-644065532), so the owner of the repo has
a reminder in their calendar every 2 years (on 15 July as that should have given GitHub sufficient time to update to
the new LTS version) to update the GitHub Actions on this repo with the new version.
